kafka-getting-started/README.md, before:

# Getting Started with Apache Kafka

This repository sets up a Kafka cluster with a single broker and shows how to use the [confluent-kafka](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/clients/confluent-kafka-python/html/index.html#) Python client to:
- create a new topic
- build a Kafka Producer application that sends messages to the topic
- build a Kafka Consumer application that consumes messages from the topic.

This project got inspiration from [Getting Started with Apache Kafka and Python](https://developer.confluent.io/get-started/python/).

## Prerequisites

Activate the Python version required by this project (e.g. via a Python Version Management tool like [pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv)).

Create a Python virtual env for this project and install the project dependencies.
For example, if you use [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html), run:
```shell
python3 -m venv $PWD/.venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install .
```

For development, install dev dependencies via `pip install '.[dev]'`.

## Setting up a Kafka Cluster

We use the [official Docker image](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/installation/docker/installation.html) provided by Confluent. For more examples, see also their [GitHub repo](https://github.com/confluentinc/kafka-images/tree/master/examples).

Start a Docker container running a single-node Kafka cluster via the following command:
```shell
docker compose up -d
```

This command runs a Kafka cluster with a single broker and ZooKeeper as consensus manager, and sets up a Docker bridge network called kafka-getting-started_default for the communication between the broker container and the ZooKeeper container.

Note that the ZooKeeper dependency can be removed by using Kafka in KRaft mode. 
A docker compose file setting up a Kafka cluster in KRaft mode would look like the following:
```yaml
services:
  kafka:
    image: confluentinc/cp-kafka:7.6.0
    hostname: kafka
    ports:
      - 9092:9092
    environment:
      KAFKA_NODE_ID: 1
      KAFKA_LISTENER_SECURITY_PROTOCOL_MAP: 'CONTROLLER:PLAINTEXT,LISTENER_INTERNAL:PLAINTEXT,LISTENER_HOST:PLAINTEXT'
      # listeners that clients will use to connect to the broker
      KAFKA_ADVERTISED_LISTENERS: 'LISTENER_INTERNAL://kafka:29092,LISTENER_HOST://localhost:9092'
      KAFKA_PROCESS_ROLES: 'broker,controller'
      KAFKA_CONTROLLER_QUORUM_VOTERS: '1@kafka:29093'
      # listeners that Kafka binds to
      # unlike for advertised listeners, replace localhost here with 0.0.0.0
      KAFKA_LISTENERS: 'CONTROLLER://kafka:29093,LISTENER_INTERNAL://kafka:29092,LISTENER_HOST://0.0.0.0:9092'
      KAFKA_CONTROLLER_LISTENER_NAMES: 'CONTROLLER'
      KAFKA_INTER_BROKER_LISTENER_NAME: 'LISTENER_INTERNAL'
      # set it to a base64-encoded UUID
      # (e.g. run: cat /proc/sys/kernel/random/uuid | tr -d '-' | base64 | cut -b 1-22)
      CLUSTER_ID: 'MjA3ODcyMTVhNTY3NDM3NG'
```
However, be aware that Kafka KRaft is a recent functionality and is currently not working as expected on this project: it doesn't recognize the topic requested by the Consumer application and so it attempts to create a new topic.

This project will keep using ZooKeeper for now and will migrate to Kafka KRaft once it becomes more mature.

## Creating a Kafka topic

Activate the python environment.

Check the command to create a new topic:
```shell
python src/admin/create_topic.py [--help]
```

Example:
```shell
python src/admin/create_topic.py --topic test-topic --port 9092
```

## Producing messages to the Kafka topic

Activate the python environment.

Check the command to produce N messages:
```shell
python src/producer/main.py [--help]
```

Example:
```shell
python src/producer/main.py --topic test-topic --port 9092
```

You can quickly check that the producer application has correctly sent the messages to the Kafka topic by using the [kcat](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/tools/kafkacat-usage.html) utility:
```shell
# option 1: running kcat on the same Docker bridge network
docker run -it --network=kafka-getting-started_default edenhill/kcat:1.7.1 -b kafka:29092 -t test-topic

# option 2: running kcat on the Docker host network
docker run -it --network=host edenhill/kcat:1.7.1 -b localhost:9092 -t test-topic
```

## Consuming messages from the Kafka topic

Activate the python environment.

Check the command to consume messages:
```shell
python src/consumer/main.py [--help]
```

You can choose weather to start from the latest committed offset or whether to run in replay mode.
In case of replay, you have to provide the range [start offset, end offset] of offsets you would like to replay.

Example:
```shell
python src/consumer/main.py --topic test-topic --port 9092 [replay --start-offset 0 --end-offset 3]
```

## Clean-up

Deactivate your virtual env. 
If you created it via [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html), run:
```shell
deactivate
```

Stop Docker containers:
```shell
docker compose stop
```

If you want to stop and remove containers and networks, run:
```shell
docker compose down
```

Commit message:

[kafka-getting-started] Add unit tests and fail_on_error option

kafka-getting-started/README.md, after:

# Getting Started with Apache Kafka

This repository sets up a Kafka cluster with a single broker and shows how to use the [confluent-kafka](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/clients/confluent-kafka-python/html/index.html#) Python client to:
- create a new topic
- build a Kafka Producer application that sends messages to the topic
- build a Kafka Consumer application that consumes messages from the topic.

This project got inspiration from [Getting Started with Apache Kafka and Python](https://developer.confluent.io/get-started/python/).

## Prerequisites

Activate the Python version required by this project (e.g. via a Python Version Management tool like [pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv)).

Create a Python virtual env for this project and install the project dependencies.
For example, if you use [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html), run:
```shell
python3 -m venv $PWD/.venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install .
```

For development, install dev dependencies via `pip install '.[dev]'`.

## Setting up a Kafka Cluster

We use the [official Docker image](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/installation/docker/installation.html) provided by Confluent. For more examples, see also their [GitHub repo](https://github.com/confluentinc/kafka-images/tree/master/examples).

Start a Docker container running a single-node Kafka cluster via the following command:
```shell
docker compose up -d
```

This command runs a Kafka cluster with a single broker and ZooKeeper as consensus manager, and sets up a Docker bridge network called kafka-getting-started_default for the communication between the broker container and the ZooKeeper container.

Note that the ZooKeeper dependency can be removed by using Kafka in KRaft mode. 
A docker compose file setting up a Kafka cluster in KRaft mode would look like the following:
```yaml
services:
  kafka:
    image: confluentinc/cp-kafka:7.6.0
    hostname: kafka
    ports:
      - 9092:9092
    environment:
      KAFKA_NODE_ID: 1
      KAFKA_LISTENER_SECURITY_PROTOCOL_MAP: 'CONTROLLER:PLAINTEXT,LISTENER_INTERNAL:PLAINTEXT,LISTENER_HOST:PLAINTEXT'
      # listeners that clients will use to connect to the broker
      KAFKA_ADVERTISED_LISTENERS: 'LISTENER_INTERNAL://kafka:29092,LISTENER_HOST://localhost:9092'
      KAFKA_PROCESS_ROLES: 'broker,controller'
      KAFKA_CONTROLLER_QUORUM_VOTERS: '1@kafka:29093'
      # listeners that Kafka binds to
      # unlike for advertised listeners, replace localhost here with 0.0.0.0
      KAFKA_LISTENERS: 'CONTROLLER://kafka:29093,LISTENER_INTERNAL://kafka:29092,LISTENER_HOST://0.0.0.0:9092'
      KAFKA_CONTROLLER_LISTENER_NAMES: 'CONTROLLER'
      KAFKA_INTER_BROKER_LISTENER_NAME: 'LISTENER_INTERNAL'
      # set it to a base64-encoded UUID
      # (e.g. run: cat /proc/sys/kernel/random/uuid | tr -d '-' | base64 | cut -b 1-22)
      CLUSTER_ID: 'MjA3ODcyMTVhNTY3NDM3NG'
```
However, be aware that Kafka KRaft is a recent functionality and is currently not working as expected on this project: it doesn't recognize the topic requested by the Consumer application and so it attempts to create a new topic.

This project will keep using ZooKeeper for now and will migrate to Kafka KRaft once it becomes more mature.

## Creating a Kafka topic

Activate the python environment.

Check the command to create a new topic:
```shell
python src/admin/create_topic.py [--help]
```

Example:
```shell
python src/admin/create_topic.py --topic test-topic --port 9092
```

## Producing messages to the Kafka topic

Activate the python environment.

Check the command to produce N messages:
```shell
python src/producer/main.py [--help]
```

Example:
```shell
python src/producer/main.py --topic test-topic --port 9092
```

You can quickly check that the producer application has correctly sent the messages to the Kafka topic by using the [kcat](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/tools/kafkacat-usage.html) utility:
```shell
# option 1: running kcat on the same Docker bridge network
docker run -it --network=kafka-getting-started_default edenhill/kcat:1.7.1 -b kafka:29092 -t test-topic

# option 2: running kcat on the Docker host network
docker run -it --network=host edenhill/kcat:1.7.1 -b localhost:9092 -t test-topic
```

## Consuming messages from the Kafka topic

Activate the python environment.

Check the command to consume messages:
```shell
python src/consumer/main.py [--help]
```

You can choose weather to start from the latest committed offset or whether to run in replay mode.
In case of replay, you have to provide the range [start offset, end offset] of offsets you would like to replay.

Example:
```shell
python src/consumer/main.py --topic test-topic --port 9092 [replay --start-offset 0 --end-offset 3]
```

There are a few differences between running the code in normal mode or in replay mode:
- in normal mode, the Consumer application:
  - runs indefinitely, waiting for and consuming new Kafka messages as soon as they arrive
  - handles a non-transient error (e.g. application bug) in a non-blocking way by not raising any exception, but logging the failed offset together with the error, then committing it and proceeding to the next message. After the application bug is fixed, a replay can then consume all the failed messages again and process them correctly
- in replay mode, the Consumer application:
  - consumes all offsets between start and end offset, both inclusive, and then completes successfully.
  - handles a non-transient error (e.g. application bug) in a blocking way by raising an exception so that the application crashes and the offset of the failed msg is not committed. After the application bug is fixed, re-start the replay from the failed msg.

## Clean-up

Deactivate your virtual env. 
If you created it via [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html), run:
```shell
deactivate
```

Stop Docker containers:
```shell
docker compose stop
```

If you want to stop and remove containers and networks, run:
```shell
docker compose down
```
